# BLE GATT Client (Send/Receive Data)

### Installing Requirements (pip)
The requirements needed to run this project were automatically generated by using pipreqs.
The following process was used to generate the list of required Python dependencies.

1. In the base project dir, install the package using: **pip install pipreqs**
2. To generate a Python dependencies list, enter cmd: **pipreqs . --ignore ".venv"**
   1. This command generates a "requirements.txt" file with the required dependencies.

3. Install the list of dependencies using: **pip install -r requirements.txt**

**Note:** To use pipreqs, it was necessary to manually download a Python library called pysetupdi.
This API wrapper is used by the "pipreqs" tool to some extent, but it was not available from
pip at the time of this project.

If using PyCharm, these dependencies are only installed within the scope of the (venv).

### Folder Structure

The repo is divided into the following structure:

- **debugging_utilities:** Files that were useful while developing the early stages of the code.
- **pyinstaller-build:** The files that were generated by the PyInstaller Build.
- **pyqt5-tools:** The files which were downloaded locally to this repo to use the Qt5 framework.
- **pysetupdi:** A library that was required for using pipreqs (refer to previous section). Installed using pip after unzipping.
- **src:** Contains the entirety of the application files (except for main.py).
- **tests:** Automated unit tests for some of the functions (some of the tests require ESP32-BLE-Server to work).

### Executable Artifact Build (.EXE)
The PyInstaller tool (v6.6.0) was used to produce the final (.EXE) artifact.

To install the PyInstaller tool, use the following command in the terminal:
**pip install pyinstaller**

**Note:** The PyInstaller package is not listed in the "requirements.txt" file because it was not
imported into any of the packages in the code. 

To produce the build artifacts, the following command was used in the terminal:

 pyinstaller -F --noconsole --distpath pyinstaller-build --workpath pyinstaller-build 
 --specpath pyinstaller-build --name BLE_GATT_Client_for_Windows .\main.py
 
All the artifacts from the build are stored in the **pyinstaller-build** directory.

**Note:** The EXE file is designed to create a logs directory at (C:\BLE_Client_Logs). This directory
would normally contain a single log file corresponding to the latest execution of the (.EXE) app.